REDWOOD SHORES, CA -- (Marketwired) -- 03/17/15 -- Oracle Corporation (NYSE: ORCL) today announced that fiscal 2015 Q3 Total Revenues were unchanged at $9.3 billion. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to foreign currencies had a significant impact on results in the quarter. Without the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, Total Revenues would have been up 6% as measured in constant currency. Software and Cloud Revenues were up 1% to $7.2 billion, and up 7% in constant currency. Cloud software-as-a-service (SaaS) and platform-as-a-service (PaaS) grew 30% to $372 million, and grew 34% in constant currency. Hardware Systems Revenues were down 2% to $1.3 billion, but were up 5% in constant currency.

GAAP Operating Income was down 5% to $3.4 billion, and the GAAP operating margin was 36%. Non-GAAP Operating Income was down 4% to $4.2 billion, and the non-GAAP operating margin was 45%. Without the impact of the U.S. dollar strengthening compared to foreign currencies, GAAP Operating Income would have been up 4% and the operating margin would have been 37%, while non-GAAP Operating Income would have been up 4% and the operating margin would have been 46%. GAAP Net Income was down 3% to $2.5 billion while non-GAAP Net Income was down 1% to $3.1 billion. In constant currency, both GAAP and non-GAAP Net Income were up 7%. GAAP Earnings Per Share was $0.56, down 1%, while non-GAAP Earnings Per Share was $0.68, unchanged from last year. In constant currency, both GAAP and non-GAAP Earnings Per Share would have been up 9%.

Short-term Deferred revenue was $6.4 billion, up 6% in constant currency compared with a year ago. Operating cash flow on a trailing twelve-month basis was $14.5 billion.

"We beat the midpoint of my constant currency guidance on every single financial metric this past quarter," said Oracle CEO, Safra Catz. "EPS was up 9%, Total Revenue was up 6%, Hardware Revenues were up 5%, Software and Cloud revenues were up 7%, and Total Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS revenues were up 33%. Once you normalize for exchange rates, it was a very strong growth quarter for us."

"In Q3, we sold nearly $200 million of new SaaS and PaaS business as measured in annual recurring revenue," said Oracle CEO, Mark Hurd. "In Q4, we expect to sell over $300 million of new SaaS and PaaS annual recurring revenue. That means we have a real chance to sell more SaaS and PaaS new business this coming quarter than any other cloud services provider. I think our hyper-growth in the cloud comes as a big surprise to a lot of people."

"We are well on our way to selling over $1 billion of new SaaS and PaaS business in calendar 2015," said Oracle Chairman and CTO Larry Ellison. "Salesforce.com has announced that it also expects to add about $1 billion of new SaaS and PaaS business this year. So it's going to be a close race who sells more in the cloud this year, us or them. Stay tuned."

Oracle also announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.15 per share of outstanding common stock, reflecting a 25% increase over the current quarterly dividend of $0.12. Larry Ellison, Oracle's Chairman of the Board, Chief Technology Officer and largest stockholder, did not participate in the deliberation or the vote on this matter. This increased dividend will be paid to stockholders of record as of the close of business on April 7, 2015, with a payment date of April 28, 2015.

Q3 Fiscal 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast

Oracle will hold a conference call and webcast today to discuss these results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific. You may listen to the call by dialing (816) 287-5563, Passcode: 425392. To access the live webcast of this event, please visit the Oracle Investor Relations website at http://www.oracle.com/investor. In addition, Oracle's Q3 results and Fiscal 2015 financial tables are available on the Oracle Investor Relations website.

A replay of the conference call will also be available by dialing (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406, Pass Code: 2334187.

About Oracle

Oracle engineers hardware and software to work together in the cloud and in your data center. For more information about Oracle (NYSE: ORCL), visit www.oracle.com or contact Investor Relations at investor_us@oracle.com or (650) 506-4073.

Trademarks

Oracle and Java are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.

"Safe Harbor" Statement: Statements in this press release relating to Oracle's future plans, expectations, beliefs, intentions and prospects, including statements regarding our expectations of future revenues from our SaaS and PaaS business and the competitive landscape for such business, are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, geopolitical and market conditions, including the continued slow economic recovery in the U.S. and other parts of the world, can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases or a decline in our renewal rates for support contracts. (3) Our cloud computing strategy, including our Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service, Platform-as-a-Service, Infrastructure-as-a-Service and our new Database as a Service offerings, may not be successful. (4) If we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, or to enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet market demand, customers may not buy new software licenses, cloud software subscriptions or hardware systems products or purchase or renew support contracts. (5) Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results, including risks relating to foreign currency gains and losses. (6) If the security measures for our software, hardware, services or Oracle Cloud offerings are compromised or if such offerings contain significant coding, manufacturing or configuration errors, we may experience reputational harm, legal claims and financial exposure. (7) We have an active acquisition program and our acquisitions may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues or may disrupt our existing operations. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on SEC Filings on Oracle's Investor Relations website at http://www.oracle.com/investor. All information set forth in this press release is current as of March 17, 2015. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.