Facebook reported solid third-quarter earnings, but the stock fell after it gave poor 2015 guidance during a call.

The stock is down 10% after-hours.

While revenue and earnings per share were better than expected, Facebook's new CFO, David Wehner, and CEO Mark Zuckerberg both warned that 2015 would be a major "investment" year for the company.

As a result, Wehner said Facebook's expenses could grow between 50% and 70% next year. Facebook plans to increase headcount and invest in advertising technology.

Facebook revenue was $3.2 billion this quarter, nudging past Wall Street's expectation of $3.12 billion. Its advertising revenue was $2.96 billion, a 64% increase from the same quarter one year ago. The remaining $264 million came from payments, which is a 13% increase from the same quarter last year.

Earnings per share is $0.43 versus an expected $0.40.
Other than that, Facebook fell exactly in line with expectations. Its monthly active users numbered 1.35 billion, a 14% increase. Mobile monthly active users totaled 1.12 billion, with daily active users totaling 864 million.


Facebook's mobile advertising revenue continues to grow. This quarter, mobile ad revenue was up to 66% of the company's total revenue. Last quarter it was  61%.

WhatsApp's numbers  are also out . WhatsApp is the $22 billion chat application Facebook recently acquired. It lost $140 million last year and generated only $10 million in revenue. However, WhatsApp has 600 million monthly active users. No new monthly user metrics for Instagram were announced, although Zuckerberg says the average global user is spending 21 minutes per day on the photo-sharing app.

Zuckerberg also detailed his three-, five-, and 10-year plans for Facebook and stressed that the company was focused on the long-term.

In the short-term, Facebook's goal is to continue growing and serving its communities and businesses and helping them reach full potential. That means Facebook will focus on growing things like Newsfeed, WhatsApp, and Instagram until they each connect at least 1 billion users.

Zuckerberg said his first priority was helping those offshoots of Facebook reach mass scale, then aggressively monetizing them. Sandberg reiterated that Facebook would be slow to monetize video placements and Instagram.

Facebook's three-year plan also includes making improvements for advertisers. Facebook is particularly focused on helping brands better target users and measure campaigns more effectively.

Over the next five years, Facebook expects its popular Instagram, Search, and WhatsApp offshoots to reach 1 billion connected users. It also wants to become a developer-friendly platform that helps promote and monetize various apps across multiple devices. 

Within 10 years, Facebook will strive to help build the next-generation computing platform, which Zuckerberg believes could be Oculus and augmented reality. Facebook acquired the virtual-reality headset company for more than $1 billion. 

Internet.org is also part of Zuckerberg's 10-year plan. He says efforts like this are driving fundamental changes in the world that Facebook needs to achieve its overall massive-connection mission.

"We're going to prepare for the future by investing aggressively," Zuckerberg said. 

"The strength of the business today is putting us in a strong position to invest in the future," Wehner added.