REDWOOD CITY — Oracle reported first-quarter earnings Wednesday that were below Wall Street expectations but that nevertheless beat the Street by a penny a share.

In a conference call with financial analysts, Oracle Executive Chairman Larry Ellison sounded more like a startup entrepreneur than a legacy business executive facing upstart competition.

“Over the last three years we’ve been in the startup phase of our cloud business,” Ellison said.

Like many of Silicon Valley’s large, well-established companies, Oracle has been pushing to deliver its software and services on the Internet, or cloud, as it witnesses declines in legacy products it sells to customers to operate on their own.

From the upbeat comments by Ellison and co-CEOs Safra Catz and Mark Hurd, better days for the beleaguered Redwood City software giant are around the corner in the last half of 2016.

The company has deployed cloud services in data centers in 14 countries and increased its capacity to deliver data center service by 90 times in three years, Ellison said.

With major investments in infrastructure behind it, Oracle said it expects profit margins from the cloud to double over the next several years.


Analyst Mark Moerdler with Sanford Bernstein said that those aren’t blue sky predictions but business in hand that Oracle hasn’t started billing for. “They’re not basing it on high hopes sales will accelerate, but on the fact that a lot of it is sitting in their pocket already,” he said.

The numbers reported Wednesday reflect the costs of ramping up for the cloud, which have gone on longer than investors had hoped. Other obstacles include fluctuations in a volatile currency market and chaos in some countries that created headwinds for overseas sales. Revenue would have been up 7 percent without the currency fluctuations, the company said.

Total revenue of $8.4 billion was down from $8.6 billion a year ago. Profit of $1.75 billion was down from $2.18 billion in the same quarter a year ago.

Adjusted earnings per share of 53 cents beat the expectations of analysts surveyed by Thompson Reuters of 52 cents a share. Revenue fell below analysts’ estimates of $8.5 billion.

While the cloud is just “another way” to offer Oracle’s software to customers, Catz said the big advantage to them is that “as a cloud provider, we are providing the hardware, the software and the labor all in one package.” Oracle sees higher profit margins from the business.

Daniel Ives, an analyst with FBR Capital Markets, said Wednesday’s report is “a step in the right direction. They’ve laid the seeds of growth. Now investors want to see the results. There are definitely challenges ahead. They have to turn around this cargo ship in the right direction.”

In after-hours trading, Oracle shares were trading at $37.67, down 1.57 percent.