Once again investors underestimated the size of Facebook's business — the company posted a huge beat over expectations on revenues and earnings per share in its Q4 announcement.

Shares went up immediately  nearly 10% in after-hours trading. (Facebook closed at $53.53 before the call.)

This time, Facebook's billowing mobile ad revenues were the factor. Mobile ad sales rose to 53% of revenues from 49% in the previous quarter. That's Facebook's first ever $1 billion-plus mobile ad revenue quarter.

Facebook is basically a mobile company right now — a majority of its revenues come from mobile, not from the desktop product. And the vast majority of its active users are mobile users.

It's not the first time Facebook has posted bigger numbers than Wall Street expected. It happens pretty regularly — that's probably a function of the fact that Facebook's ad business remains poorly understood among investors. (And, to be fair, it's quite a complicated business with a variety of revenue bearing products that can be used in dozens of different ways.) Facebook has more than 1 million advertisers in total.

Here are the big numbers:

Revenues: $2.59 billion, up 63%.
Earnings per share: 31 cents.
Monthly active users: 1.23 billion, up 16%.
Mobile monthly active users: 945 million, up 39%.
Mobile ad revenue was 53% of total revenue.
Net income: $523 million, up from $64 million.
Revenue for the full year 2013 was $7.87 billion, an increase of 55% year-over-year.
That's a huge beat on the top and bottom lines.

Here is the overall revenue breakdown:

facebook q4
Facebook

Here is a breakdown of Facebook's ad revenue, per BII:

Facebook Ad Revenue
Business Insider Intelligence

Here's the overall user growth:

facebook q4
Facebook

And here's the user growth breakdown, again from BII:

Facebook MAUs
Business Insider Intelligence

"It was a great end to the year for Facebook," said CEO Mark Zuckerberg. "We're looking forward to our next decade and to helping connect the rest of the world."

See the full disclosure here.

Refresh this page or click here for updates as we go along.

Now we're listening in to the conference call:

CEO Mark Zuckerberg: 172 million new monthly actives added in 2013.

Facebook is seeing 6 billion likes a day.

"Only one third of the world's population has access to the internet today ... helping more people to get connected is important to developing the global knowledge economy." (Note that a recurring theme with Zuckerberg is that to get future growth for Facebook, the entire internet has to grow.)

"Standalone mobile apps like Messenger and Instagram are important to Facebook."

70% increase in Messenger usage in last three months.

Instagram: ... Zuckerberg doesn't give any new user numbers. Hmm.

500 million people using Facebook groups every month.

Ads: He wants to improve quality of ads rather than quantity.

Zuck thanks everyone who works at Facebook. "I'm grateful that so many talented people are part of our team."

COO Sheryl Sandberg: ... the first time we crossed 50% in mobile ad revenue and first $1 billion-plus mobile quarter.

Simplification of ad products has worked. Small/medium businesses are converting from free page users to paid advertisers.

Mobile app install ads "small but quickly growing category." This particular type of ad is one of the most important to Facebook management.

She declines to talk about the third party mobile ad network in which ads run in other apps powered by Facebook targeting.

Custom Audiences: ... no numbers but all good news.


"Facebook is the only place where 750 million people visit every day."

CFO David Ebersman: ... discussion of users ... engagement per user increased in 2013 ...

"Instagram doubled its user base in past year." (No numbers given.)

(He does NOT mention teens!)

Questions from Wall Street analysts:

What is Zuck's vision for standalone mobile apps? (This is an important question in terms of Facebook's new business development and acquisition strategy.)

Zuck: "In terms of the focus on building new and separate experiences .... [people want different ways to share and communicate different things] ... [we will] build a handful of great new experiences that are separate from what you think of as Facebook today. ... we're going to keep on working on this over the next few years." Messenger has been given "room to breathe and blossom."

Zuck: "Standalone experiences" is becoming a theme! He has said that more than once now.

Video question:

Zuck: ... some vague stuff, no numbers on new video ads.

Sandberg: "We recently started testing an autoplay video ad test, it's a very small test."

It's all about proving the ROI to clients, client by client. (Sales chief Carolyn Everson gets a shout out!)

Ebersman: News Feed ads are performing so well that they continue to drive up the price per ad.

Instagram question: Will ad load increase?

Answer ... a lot of vague verbiage about user experience. Nothing concrete. Facebook is taking it slow, basically.

(Slightly frustrating that no one has yet asked how many monthly active users Instagram now has. Facebook hasn't update its 150 million stat for months.)

Algorithm tweak to favor news over cat memes, is it working?:

Zuck: "A lot of things like memes scored high in terms of ge ting people to like them but didn't score highly in terms of what people wanted to see."

Question: Teens!

Ebersman: "In terms of teens we don't have any new data to report today."

(FB holders breath huge sigh of relief — last time Ebersman talked about teens he said usage was down and the stock dropped 15% instantly.)

Question: How is Graph Search coming?

Zuck: It's based on a trillion different pieces of Facebook content. "A trillion pieces of content is more than the index in any search engine." ... "we look at this on a three to five-year period."

Mobile ad network test, how is it going?

Sandberg: "It's a small test we just started ... so we don't have results yet." "We are very excited about the mobile app space in general." She mentions mobile app download ads — again. (Sandberg has been hammering on these things for months now.)

Question: meandering query about "contextual" ads. (This appears to be a question about how Facebook targeting data might be used in off-Facebook venues, i.e. via its Atlas ad server.)

Sandberg: "If you look at what's happening with our direct response business, which has been very strong for us, we offer the opportunity to get people before they search. ... to find consumers before they search, so they can then move consumers all the way down the funnel to purchase." (This is a key point for Facebook, and one of the reasons Wall Street so frequently gets Facebook wrong — a huge portion of Facebook advertisers are DR clients, meaning they more sales they make the more ads they buy. They are not traditional budgets that are set once a year. They can increase exponentially with sales. Hence the big revenue beats.)

Artificial Intelligence:

Zuck: A.I. research unit, will operate over a 5-10 year period, to understand how everything on FB is connected. "what do the posts people write mean?" "The real value will be if we can just understand the meaning of all the content people are sharing."

And ... we're out!

Here is what analysts were expecting prior to the call:

Revenues: $2.33 billion
Earnings per share: 27 cents.
The background to the call:

Investors will be especially sensitive to whether CEO Mark Zuckerberg, COO Sheryl Sandberg or CFO David Ebersman mention the word "teens" on the call. Last quarter, Ebersman said Facebook had seen a slight, non-significant decline in teen usage, and it immediately wiped 15% off the value of the stock.

We're also looking for news of Facebook's acquisition strategy. Facebook failed to acquire Snapchat and DeepMind recently — so we know it's in the market for new companies but it has problems pulling the trigger at the right price.

Other than that, Facebook is entering an era of tough comparables. 2013 was a heck of a year for Facebook, and now it faces big, big numbers to beat, not just in terms of revenues but monthly active user growth and mobile user growth.

Growth, in fact, is always the major issue looming behind everything with Facebook — hence the teen angst.

Disclosure: The author sold Facebook stock a couple of days before the Q4 financials were disclosed.