REDWOOD SHORES, CA -- (Marketwired) -- 06/17/15 -- Oracle Corporation (NYSE: ORCL) today announced fiscal 2015 Q4 results. The results were significantly impacted by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to foreign currencies. Total Q4 Revenues were $10.7 billion, down 5% but would have been up 3% without the strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Software and Cloud Revenues were $8.4 billion, down 6%, but up 2% in constant currency. Cloud software as a service (SaaS) and platform as a service (PaaS) revenues were $416 million, growing 29%, and up 35% in constant currency. Cloud infrastructure as a service (IaaS) revenues were $160 million, growing 25%, and up 31% in constant currency. Hardware Systems Revenues were $1.4 billion, down 4%, but up 5% in constant currency.

Q4 Operating Income was $4.0 billion, and the Operating Margin was 37%. Non-GAAP Operating Income was $5.0 billion, and the non-GAAP Operating Margin was 46%. Net Income was $2.8 billion while non-GAAP Net Income was $3.5 billion. Earnings Per Share was $0.62, down 23%, and down 12% in constant currency, while non-GAAP Earnings Per Share was $0.78, down 14%, and down 5% in constant currency.

Short-term Deferred revenues were $7.2 billion, slightly down, but up 9% in constant currency compared with a year ago. Operating Cash Flow on a trailing twelve-month basis was $14.3 billion.

For fiscal year 2015, Total Revenues were $38.2 billion, essentially unchanged, but up 4% in constant currency. Software and Cloud Revenues were $29.5 billion, up 1%, and up 5% in constant currency. Cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues were $1.5 billion, up 32%, and up 35% in constant currency. Cloud IaaS revenues were $608 million, up 33%, and up 36% in constant currency. Total Hardware System Revenues were $5.2 billion, down 3%, but up 2% in constant currency. Operating Income was $13.9 billion, and the Operating Margin was 36%. Non-GAAP Operating Income was $17.4 billion, and non-GAAP Operating Margin was 45%. Net Income was $9.9 billion, while non-GAAP Net Income was $12.5 billion. Earnings Per Share was $2.21, down 7%, but unchanged in constant currency. Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share was $2.77 down 3%, but up 2% in constant currency.

"We sold an astonishing $426 million of new SaaS and PaaS annually recurring cloud subscription revenue in Q4," said Oracle CEO, Safra Catz. "We expect our rapidly increasing cloud sales to quickly translate into significantly more revenue and profits for Oracle Corporation. For example, SaaS and PaaS revenues grew at a 34% constant currency rate in our just completed Q4, but we expect that revenue growth rate to jump to around 60% in constant currency this new fiscal year."

"Coming into Q4, we forecast selling $300 million of new SaaS and PaaS annual recurring revenue," said Oracle CEO, Mark Hurd. "We dramatically beat that forecast by selling a cloud industry all-time-record amount of $426 million of new SaaS and PaaS business. That is a year-over-year bookings growth rate of over 200%. As our multi-billion dollar cloud business gets bigger, our SaaS and PaaS revenue growth rates are on their way up to 60% in constant currency. Compare this to our primary cloud competitors' whose own revenue growth forecasts are on their way down to 44% and 22%."

"We expect to book between $1.5 and $2.0 billion of new SaaS and PaaS business this fiscal year," said Oracle Executive Chairman and CTO Larry Ellison. "That means Oracle would sell more new SaaS and PaaS business than salesforce.com plans to sell in their current fiscal year -- the only remaining question is how much more. Oracle's planned SaaS and PaaS revenue growth rate is around 60% in constant currency; salesforce.com has a planned growth rate of around 20%. When you contrast those growth rates it becomes clear that Oracle is on its way to becoming the world's largest enterprise cloud company."

The Board of Directors also declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.15 per share of outstanding common stock. This dividend will be paid to stockholders of record as of the close of business on July 8, 2015, with a payment date of July 29, 2015.

Q4 Fiscal 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast

Oracle will hold a conference call and webcast today to discuss these results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific. You may listen to the call by dialing (816) 287-5563, Passcode: 425392. To access the live webcast of this event, please visit the Oracle Investor Relations website at http://www.oracle.com/investor. In addition, Oracle's Q4 results and Fiscal 2015 financial tables are available on the Oracle Investor Relations website.

A replay of the conference call will also be available by dialing (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406, Pass Code: 62149434.

About Oracle

Oracle engineers hardware and software to work together in the cloud and in your data center. For more information about Oracle (NYSE: ORCL), visit www.oracle.com or contact Investor Relations at investor_us@oracle.com or (650) 506-4073.

Trademarks

Oracle and Java are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.

"Safe Harbor" Statement: Statements in this press release relating to Oracle's future plans, expectations, beliefs, intentions and prospects, including statements regarding our expectations of future revenues and profits from our cloud business, our expected future bookings and the growth rates for such business, are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, geopolitical and market conditions, including the continued slow economic recovery in the U.S. and other parts of the world, can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases or a decline in our renewal rates for support contracts. (3) Our cloud computing strategy, including our Oracle Cloud SaaS, PaaS, IaaS and our new Oracle Cloud database as a service offerings, may not be successful. (4) If we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, or to enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet market demand, customers may not buy new software licenses, cloud software subscriptions or hardware systems products or purchase or renew support contracts. (5) Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results, including risks relating to foreign currency gains and losses. (6) If the security measures for our software, hardware, services or Oracle Cloud offerings are compromised or if such offerings contain significant coding, manufacturing or configuration errors, we may experience reputational harm, legal claims and financial exposure. (7) We have an active acquisition program and our acquisitions may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues or may disrupt our existing operations. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on SEC Filings on Oracle's Investor Relations website at http://www.oracle.com/investor. All information set forth in this press release is current as of June 17, 2015. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.