Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) today announced fiscal 2012 Q2 GAAP and non-GAAP total revenues were up 2% to $8.8 billion. Both GAAP and non-GAAP new software license revenues were up 2% to $2.0 billion. Both GAAP and non-GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 9% to $4.0 billion. Both GAAP and non-GAAP hardware systems products revenues were down 14% to $953 million. GAAP operating income was up 12% to $3.1 billion, and GAAP operating margin was 35%. Non-GAAP operating income was up 3% to $3.9 billion, and non-GAAP operating margin was 45%. GAAP net income was up 17% to $2.2 billion, while non-GAAP net income was up 6% to $2.8 billion. GAAP earnings per share were $0.43, up 17% compared to last year while non-GAAP earnings per share were up 6% to $0.54. GAAP operating cash flow on a trailing twelve-month basis was $13.1 billion.

"Non-GAAP operating margins increased to 45% in Q2," said Oracle President and CFO, Safra Catz, "and we expect those margins to keep growing. Operating cash flow over the last twelve months grew to $13.1 billion; that's up a remarkable 45% compared to the preceding twelve month period."

"We have expanded our worldwide sales capacity by adding over 1,700 sales professionals in the first half of this fiscal year," said Oracle President, Mark Hurd. "We believe that this increase in our field organization combined with innovative new products like Fusion Cloud ERP and Cloud CRM will enable solid organic growth in the second half of this year."

"Sales of our engineered systems accelerated in Q2," said Oracle CEO, Larry Ellison. "Exadata growth was well over 100% compared to last year, and Exalogic grew more than 100% on a sequential basis. We shipped our first SPARC SuperCluster in Q2 and expect to begin deliveries of our Exalytics system and the Oracle Big Data Appliance in Q3."

Oracle announced that its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $5.0 billion of common stock under its existing share repurchase program in future quarters.

The Board of Directors also declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per share of outstanding common stock. This dividend will be paid to stockholders of record as of the close of business on January 11, 2012, with a payment date of February 1, 2012.

View release and financials: http://www.oracle.com/us/corporate/investor-relations/index.html.

Q2 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
Oracle will hold a conference call and webcast today to discuss these results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific. You may listen to the call by dialing (913) 312-0945 or (877) 612-6725, Passcode: 289185. To access the live webcast of this event, please visit the Oracle Investor Relations website at http://www.oracle.com/investor. A replay of the conference call will also be available by dialing (719) 457-0820 or (888) 203-1112, Passcode: 5771640.

About Oracle
Oracle engineers hardware and software to work together in the cloud and in your data center. For more information about Oracle (NASDAQ: ORCL), visit www.oracle.com or contact Investor Relations at investor_us@oracle.com or (650) 506-4073.

Trademarks
Oracle and Java are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
"Safe Harbor" Statement: Statements in this press release relating to Oracle's future plans, expectations, beliefs, intentions and prospects, including statements regarding operating margin growth, organic growth in the second half of fiscal 2012, Exalytics systems and Oracle Big Data Appliance deliveries and our share repurchase program, are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, political and market conditions, including the recent recession and current European debt crisis, can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, unanticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases or a decline in our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. (3) Our hardware systems business may not be successful, and we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts with respect to this business. (4) We have an active acquisition program and our acquisitions may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues or may disrupt our existing operations. (5) Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results, including risks relating to foreign currency gains and losses and risks relating to compliance with international and U.S. laws that apply to our international operations. (6) Intense competitive forces demand rapid technological advances and frequent new product introductions and could require us to reduce prices or cause us to lose customers. (7) If we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, or to enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet market demand, customers may not buy new software licenses or hardware systems products or purchase or renew support contracts. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on SEC Filings on Oracle's Investor Relations website at http://www.oracle.com/investor. All information set forth in this press release is current as of December 20, 2011. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.