Twitter
 beat revenue estimates and matched on earnings for the September quarter, but Wall Street could care less.

Twitter posted a slight profit of $0.01 per share for the third quarter, matching analysts' estimates. It also reported revenue of $361 million, more than doubling year-over-year and well ahead of estimates for revenue of $351 million. Yet, the company's stock, which had dipped by about 3% in trading Monday, fell by more than 10% in after hours trading following the results.

SEE ALSO: Twitter Isn't Essential and Probably Never Will Be


The driving factor, as always seems to be the case with Twitter, appears to be user growth and engagement. The social network had 284 million monthly active users in the quarter, up 23% year-over-year, but an increase of less than 5% from the previous quarter.

 Screen Shot 2014-10-27 at 4.23.05 PM
Of the 13 million users Twitter added, three million came from the U.S. and 10 million abroad. On the earnings call that followed, Twitter CFO Anthony Noto chalked up the slowing international growth to a greater authentication standard and "missed international events," like the Indian elections that took place during the previous quarter.

Timeline views, Twitter's metric for engagement, declined on a per user basis by 6% in the U.S. and 7% worldwide. Twitter expects timeline views growth to be flat in the upcoming quarter compared to the same quarter a year earlier.

The latest figures have once again reignited concerns about Twitter's slowing growth and potential to become a mainstream during on par with Facebook.

 Screen Shot 2014-10-27 at 5.05.32 PM
Twitter impressed investors with its user growth in the previous quarter, adding 16 million users and growing by more than 6% quarter-over-quarter. In the months since then, some analysts have questioned how much of that growth was due to product changes and how much was simply because of the World Cup. (Noto downplayed the impact of the World Cup on monthly user numbers during the call.)

The earnings report comes just a couple weeks ahead of the first anniversary of Twitter's IPO. Twitter stock topped $70 the month after its public offering, but fell earlier this year on concerns about its user growth. That said, it remains well above its IPO price of $26 a share.

During the earnings call with analysts, Twitter CEO Dick Costolo expressed confidence in the company's strategy to "build the largest audience in the world," but he noted that "it's more critical than ever that we increase our overall pace of execution."