REDWOOD SHORES, CA -- (Marketwired) -- 06/16/16 -- Oracle Corporation (NYSE: ORCL) today announced fiscal 2016 Q4 results. Total Q4 Revenues were $10.6 billion, down 1% in U.S. dollars and flat in constant currency. Cloud plus On-Premise Software Revenues were $8.4 billion, flat in U.S. dollars and up 2% in constant currency. Cloud software as a service (SaaS) and platform as a service (PaaS) revenues were $690 million, up 66% in U.S. dollars and up 68% in constant currency. Total Cloud revenues, including infrastructure as a service (IaaS), were $859 million, up 49% in U.S. dollars and up 51% in constant currency. Operating Income was $4.0 billion, and Operating Margin was 37%. Non-GAAP Operating Income was $4.8 billion, and the non-GAAP Operating Margin was 45%. Net Income was $2.8 billion while non-GAAP Net Income was $3.4 billion. Earnings Per Share was $0.66, while non-GAAP Earnings Per Share was $0.81. Without the impact of the U.S. dollar strengthening compared to foreign currencies, Oracle's reported GAAP Earnings Per Share would have been 2 cents higher and non-GAAP Earnings Per Share would have been 1 cent higher.

Short-term deferred revenues were $7.7 billion, up 6% in U.S. dollars and up 7% in constant currency compared with a year ago. Operating cash flow on a trailing twelve-month basis was $13.6 billion.

For fiscal 2016, Total Revenues were $37.0 billion, down 3% in U.S. dollars and up 2% in constant currency. Cloud plus On-Premise Software Revenues were $29.0 billion, down 2% in U.S. dollars and up 3% in constant currency. Cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues were $2.2 billion, up 49% in U.S. dollars and up 52% in constant currency. Total Cloud revenues, including IaaS, were $2.9 billion, up 36% in U.S. dollars and up 40% in constant currency. Operating Income was $12.6 billion, and Operating Margin was 34%. Non-GAAP Operating Income was $15.8 billion and non-GAAP Operating Margin was 43%. Net Income was $8.9 billion while non-GAAP Net Income was $11.2 billion. Earnings Per Share was $2.07, while Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share was $2.61. Without the impact of the U.S. dollar strengthening compared to foreign currencies, Oracle's reported GAAP and non-GAAP Earnings Per Share would have been 17 cents higher.

"Fourth quarter SaaS and PaaS revenue growth accelerated to 68% in constant currency, significantly higher than my guidance," said Oracle CEO, Safra Catz. "SaaS and PaaS gross margins continued to improve throughout the year, exiting FY16 at 56%. Bookings in Q4 were also very strong enabling us to raise our guidance for Q1 SaaS and PaaS revenue growth, which we now expect to be between 75% and 80%."

"We added more than 1,600 new SaaS customers and more than 2,000 new PaaS customers in Q4," said Oracle CEO, Mark Hurd. "In Fusion ERP alone, we added more than 800 new cloud customers. Today, Oracle has nearly 2,600 Fusion ERP customers in the Oracle Public Cloud -- that's ten-times more cloud ERP customers than Workday."

"We expect that the SaaS and PaaS hyper-growth we experienced in FY16 will continue on for the next few years," said Oracle Executive Chairman and CTO, Larry Ellison. "That gives us a fighting chance to be the first cloud company to reach $10 billion in SaaS and PaaS revenue. We're also very excited about the availability of version 2 of Oracle's Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) -- which will enable us to speed up the growth of our IaaS business, which customers want to buy in conjunction with our SaaS and PaaS."

The Board of Directors also declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.15 per share of outstanding common stock. This dividend will be paid to stockholders of record as of the close of business on July 6, 2016, with a payment date of July 27, 2016.

Q4 Fiscal 2016 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast

Oracle will hold a conference call and webcast today to discuss these results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific. You may listen to the call by dialing (816) 287-5563, Passcode: 425392. To access the live webcast of this event, please visit the Oracle Investor Relations website at http://www.oracle.com/investor. In addition, Oracle's Q4 results and fiscal 2016 financial tables are available on the Oracle Investor Relations website.

A replay of the conference call will also be available by dialing (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406, Pass Code: 28515799.

About Oracle

Oracle offers a comprehensive and fully integrated stack of cloud applications and platform services. For more information about Oracle (NYSE: ORCL), visit www.oracle.com or contact Investor Relations at investor_us@oracle.com or (650) 506-4073.

Trademarks

Oracle and Java are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.

"Safe Harbor" Statement: Statements in this press release relating to Oracle's future plans, expectations, beliefs, intentions and prospects, including statements regarding our future guidance, and expectations of future SaaS, PaaS and IaaS growth, are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Our cloud computing strategy, including our Oracle Cloud SaaS, PaaS, IaaS and data as a service offerings, may not be successful. (2) If we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, or to enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet market demand, customers may not buy new software licenses, cloud software subscriptions or hardware systems products or purchase or renew support contracts. (3) If the security measures for our software, hardware, services or Oracle Cloud offerings are compromised or if such offerings contain significant coding, manufacturing or configuration errors, we may experience reputational harm, legal claims and financial exposure. (4) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases or a decline in our renewal rates for support contracts. (5) Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results, including risks relating to foreign currency gains and losses. (6) Economic, geopolitical and market conditions, including the continued slow economic recovery in the U.S. and other parts of the world, can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. (7) We have an active acquisition program and our acquisitions may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues or may disrupt our existing operations. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on SEC Filings on Oracle's Investor Relations website at http://www.oracle.com/investor. All information set forth in this press release is current as of June 16, 2016. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.