Facebook's Q2 2013 earnings have blown away expectations on both topline revenues and bottom line earnings per share.

The beat came on a massive increase in mobile advertising, which was ~$656 million in Q2, up from $375 million in Q1.

Going forward, that big increase in mobile is going to give Facebook harder comparable numbers to beat in the coming quarters. Mobile wasn't part of the mix last year.

CEO Mark Zuckerberg played up the growth of Instagram on the call, and also underlined his belief that the U.S. simply doesn't produce enough engineers to fuel tech company hiring.

He also denied the accusation that teens are getting bored of Facebook.

Lastly, COO Sheryl Sandberg confirmed our report from yesterday that Facebook's video ad product is NOT yet ready for prime time. She declined to say when it might appear.

More details on the financials are at the bottom of this post.

EPS: 19 cents (expectation was 14 cents).

Total Revenue: $1.81 billion (expectations were $1.62 billion).

Facebook's earnings call has begun! Here's our live blog of the call:

CEO Mark Zuckerberg is speaking now ... "we now have more daily actives on mobile than on desktop ... soon we'll have more revenue on mobile than on desktop."

"Our mission is to reach the next 5 billion people."

Added 45 million monthly actives, he says. 700 million people worldwide use FB daily, he says. "People are spending more time on Facebook than ever before." (Because of mobile.)

Teens are NOT abandoning Facebook: "That just isn't true." Zuck says he's done the research and the numbers bear him out.

On to Instagram. Video is a success, he says. (When he mentions "Kevin," he's presumably referring to Instagram CEO Kevin Systrom.)

FB now has 1 million active advertisers. They're still satisfied with ROI, Zuck says.

"This quarter marks the end of our first year as a public company." Happy IPO anniversary, everyone!

COO Sheryl Sandberg is now speaking ...

"E-commerce companies increased their spend significantly."  Spend doubled in the second quarter. They have high click-thru rates. She mentions mobile app install ads, as well. (My take: This is part of Facebook's push to position itself as a direct-response medium with robust ROI analytics.)

"Every night 88-100 million people are using Facebook during the nightime hours while watching TV." (Sandberg seems to be addressing Twitter's moves into the social media/TV ad market here.)

Custom audiences clients more than doubled, she said. (Those are the advertisers who use their own lists to target customers. It's one of Facebook's key pushes to demonstrate that ads on FB actually work.)

"We have one of, if not THE, most effective mobile ad product."

CFO David Ebersam is now speaking ...

On Instagram: "There are 130 million actives using the service."

Average price per ad on FB is up 13%. No. of impressions served is up, too.

"We were pleased to see King's rapid growth in Q2." (Note that the maker of Candy Crush Saga gets the first shout out — Zynga has yet to be mentioned! Ouch!)

Questions from analysts! ...

Question 1 is about effectiveness of ads in the news feed.

Sheryl: "All four marketer segments are growing ... increased supply and increase in demand."

Question 2: Mobile app install ads.

Sheryl: "All four segments are growing. Mobile app install ads are small but they're important and they're growing rapidly."

Question 3 is on custom audiences.

Sheryl: (Long answer about targeting. Bit dry, frankly.)

Question 4 is on monetization of Instagram!

Zuckerberg: "Kevin has always been clear that we're building Instagram as a business. ... probably through advertising." ...focus will be to increase footprint of Instagram. Not at advertising point yet.

Sheryl: Says she wants to increase share of CPG marketers.

Question 5 is on growth of ad sales force and ad ops, particularly outside US.

Sheryl: "Our growth was very strong across regions. ... we're up to over 40 offices, we have sales teams on the ground in 40 offices." ... [strong in Asia.]

Question 6 is on programmatic selling (that's FB's ad exchange, FBX).

Sheryl: "FBX ... is actually a very small part of our business and sometimes people don't understand that." (My take: Ouch! Hundreds of real-time bidding adtech execs just died a little inside. Previously, people thought this was worth hundreds of millions or maybe billions of dollars a year, eventually.)

Question 7 is on impression-based selling v. performance selling.

Sheryl: "Advertisers are looking for discovery. ... We have a big brand opportunity ... up to 100 million engaged during primetime hours. ... T-Mobile did a campaign ... used offer ads ... they had a 20X return on adspend. That's what we can do with impressions, taking it all the way through the funnel."

Ebersam is talking about cap-ex. Not too dramatic.

Question 8 is on mobile. Why so lumpy?

Ebersam: ... News feed ad integration was a big, smooth success. Ad prices held up even tho more inventory was supplied. ... clicks in system is still increasing, increasing supply, but cost per clicks for news feed ads increased anyway, Q-Q.

Question 9 is on mobile news feed ads, again. He wants a breakdown of how growth pricing works.

Ebersam: "We're trying to find the right balance for each user." Wants better creative so ads are more engaging. Everything contributed. Supply, demand, cost per click all went up. "A nice balanced contribution from the variables."

Question 10: Video ads! Finally! What are the hurdles?

Sheryl: "We have a current video ad product, because advertisers can embed a video in a page post ... demand is there ... we are exploring how to expand that but we don't have anything new to announce today." (My take: Reports back in April that a video ad product was on its way were premature.)

Question 11: Platform strategy ...

Zuck: We've found the mobile app install ads work. People like them.

Question 12: Big picture question for Zuck, views on long-term aspirations.

Zuck: Yeh, I think we're early. ... reaching a billion people was this big rallying cry for the company for a long time. ... no one had ever built a service that had a billion people signed in ... the real goal is to connect everyone in the world ...

Question 13 is on 40% increase on y-o-y price per ad: please call out one of two enhancements that were contribs to that; challenging comps in second half of year?

Ebersam: Pricing is really strong all over. Comps: if you're looking at the percentage growth rates, last year the quarter didn't have much mobile revenue attached to it. Comps will get harder because old numbers had no mobile revenue in them.

Sheryl: E-commerce doubled year over year. Mobile app install ads saw a lot of growth. (Sandberg is really hammering on those two areas.)

Question 14 is on e-commerce spend doubling. What drove it?

Sheryl: We've made a major investment in helping DR marketers measure returns. ... "their budgets are flexible around ROI." ... "They adjust to their budgets."

Question 15 is on hiring, are there pressures on finding talent? Also, what are the mix of advertisers and how are they growing?

Zuck: "Hiring great people is one of the biggest challenges that any tech company has. We're doing really well ... but there's a systemic issue where our country doesn't produce the volume of engineers that companies want to hire. ... we have a strong program on colleges ... it's really important." (My take: Zuck has barely restrained himself from going into a diatribe about immigration reform — he wants it relaxed so he can increase hiring of foreign engineers.)

Sheryl: "CPG, gaming, retail, these are categories where we're really strong." She calls out GE's Instagram work.

Question 16: On adoption / targeting / programmatic.

Sheryl: We like having an ecosystem of PMDs and 3rd party sellers ... we'd like to see all sales channels continue to grow and thrive.

Question 17 is on Graph Search and Facebook Home. What have you learned?

Zuck: [He's taking a long run-up to answer the question] ... "Instagram video is doing really well, it fits really naturally ... things like Home and GS are new use cases. ... I think of it more as a seed we're planting that will create a new pillar of the ecosystem" ... [long term bets] ...

That's it!

+++

The stock took a big leap after the numbers came out, up 15% in seconds. FB has been trading around $26.30 all day. It's now above $30 for the first time in weeks.

Investor slides: see them here.

Here are the highlights from the press release:

The revenue gain came after Facebook for the first time signed up 1 million-plus active advertisers. Ad revenue was $1.6 billion. Mobile ad revenue is now 41% of Facebook's ad revenue. Payments revenue was $214 million. (Payments is turning out to be a not-very-interesting business for Facebook.)

Facebook for Every Phone passed 100 million users. FEP is Facebook's feature phone app, which is popular in developing countries. There are also now 100,000 Facebook apps available for users.

User numbers:

Daily Active Users: 699 million, up 27%.
Monthly Active Users: 1.15 billion, up 21%.
Mobile MAUs: 819 million, up 51%.
Mobile daily active users: 469 million.
Mobile only monthly users: 219 million.
Here's a snapshot of the top and bottom lines:


Here was the context going into the call: Facebook appears to have delayed its introduction of video ads, and the report that some agencies reduced their adspend on the platform turned out to be a red herring, as we suggested.